🎓Extend the Count and Cache Tutorial to also cover exchanging interims results. (#258)
JuliaManifolds/Manopt.jl: tutorials/CountAndCache.qmd

```{julia}
get_solver_result(r)
```

## Advanced Caching Examples

There are more options other than caching single calls to specific parts of the objective.
For example you may want to cache intermediate results
of computing the cost and share that with the gradient computation. We will present
three solutions to this:

> 1. An easy approach from within `Manopt.jl`: The [`ManifoldCostGradientObjective`]

Reviewer: You probably missed link address here?

Author: Actually just a `(@ref)` missing since it end up in the docs.

This can be done as follows

```{julia}
struct StorageG{T,M}
    A::M
    Ap::T
    p::T
end
function (g::StorageG)(::Val{:Cost}, M::AbstractManifold, p)
    if !(p==g.p) #We are at a new point -> Update
        g.Ap .= g.A*p
        g.p .= p
    end
    return -g.p'*g.Ap
end
function (g::StorageG)(::Val{:Gradient}, M::AbstractManifold, X, p)
    if !(p==g.p) #We are at a new point -> Update
        g.Ap .= g.A*p
        g.p .= p
    end
    X .= -2 .* g.Ap
    project!(M, X, p, X)
    return X
end
```

Here we use the first parameter to distinguish both functions. For the mutating
case the signatures are different regardless of the additional argument but for the allocating case, the signatures of the cost and the gradient function are the same.

```{julia}
#Define the new functor
storage_g = StorageG(A, zero(p0), zero(p0))
# and cost and gradient that use this functor as
g3(M,p) = storage_g(Val(:Cost), M, p)
grad_g3!(M, X, p) = storage_g(Val(:Gradient), M, X, p)
@time s3 = gradient_descent(N, g3, grad_g3!, p0;
    stopping_criterion = StopWhenGradientNormLess(1e-5),
    evaluation=InplaceEvaluation(),
    count=[:Cost, :Gradient],

>     cache=(:LRU, [:Cost, :Gradient], 25),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cache=(:LRU, [:Cost, :Gradient], 2),
```
I've checked, 2 is enough but 1 is not.

    return_objective=true#, return_state=true
)
```

This of course still yields the same result

```{julia}
p3 = get_solver_result(s3)
g(N, p3) - f_star
```

> And while we again have a split of the cost and gradient evaluations, we can observer that the allocations are less thatn half of the previous approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And while we again have a split off the cost and gradient evaluations, we can observe that the allocations are less than half of the previous approach.
```

> ### A local Cache approach

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A local cache approach
```

This variant is very similar to the previous one, but uses a whole cache instead
of just one place to store `A*p`. This makes the code a bit nicer,

> and it is possivle to store more than just the last `p` either cost or gradient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and it is possible to store more than just the last `p` either cost or gradient
```

```{julia}
get_solver_result(r)
```

## Advanced Caching Examples

> Besides caching single calls to elements of the objective.
> A specific scenario might be, that you want to cache intermediate results
> of computing the cost and share that with the gradient. We will present
> three solutions to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are more options other than caching single calls to specific parts of the objective.
For example you may want to cache intermediate results
of computing the cost and share that with the gradient computation. We will present
three solutions to this:
```

g(M, p) = -p' * A*p
∇g(p) = -2 * A * p
grad_g(M,p) = project(M, p, ∇g(p))
grad_g!(M,X, p) = project!(M, X, p, ∇g(p))
```

But since both the cost and the gradient require the computation of the matrix-vector product $Ap$, it might be beneficial to only compute this once.

### The [`ManifoldCostGradientObjective`](@ref) approach

The [`ManifoldCostGradientObjective`](@ref) uses a combined function to compute both the gradient and the cost at the same time. We define the inplace variant as

```{julia}
function g_grad_g!(M, X, p)
    X .= -A*p
    c = p'*X
    X .*= 2
    project!(M, X, p, X)
    return (c, X)
end
```

where we only compute the matrix-vector product once.
The small disadvantage might be, that we always compute _both_, the gradient and the cost. Luckily, the cache we used before, takes this into account and caches both results, such that we indeed end up computing `A*p` only once when asking to a cost and a gradient.

Let's compare both methods
```{julia}
p0 = [(1/5 .* ones(5))..., zeros(m-4)...];
@time s1 = gradient_descent(N, g, grad_g!, p0;
    stopping_criterion = StopWhenGradientNormLess(1e-5),
    evaluation=InplaceEvaluation(),
    count=[:Cost, :Gradient],

>     cache=(:LRU, [:Cost, :Gradient], 25),

Reviewer: For `gradient_descent` this looks like way too long cache. I think a simple cache should be enough.

Author: Indeed, here one could take the simple cache as well. Will try.

Author: So `SimpleCache` multiplies the evaluations by a factor of 3, sure maybe a 5er cache is fine as well and we do not need 2, but just the `SimpleCache` is not enough.

Reviewer: Weird, though let's use LRU cache then.

Author: I am a bit surprised as well, but there is several places that access the gradient for example.

    return_objective=true,
)
```

versus

```{julia}
obj = ManifoldCostGradientObjective(g_grad_g!; evaluation=InplaceEvaluation())
@time s2 = gradient_descent(N, obj, p0;
    stopping_criterion=StopWhenGradientNormLess(1e-5),
    count=[:Cost, :Gradient],
    cache=(:LRU, [:Cost, :Gradient], 25),
    return_objective=true,
)
```

first of all both yield the same result

```{julia}
p1 = get_solver_result(s1)
p2 = get_solver_result(s2)
[distance(N, p1, p2), g(N, p1), g(N, p2), f_star]
```

and we can see that the combined number of evaluations is once 2051, once
just the number of cost evaluations 1449. Note that the involved additional 847
gradient evaluations are merely a multiplication with 2. On the other hand, the additional caching of the gradient in these cases might be less beneficial.
It is beneficial, when the gradient and the cost are very often required together.

### A shared storage approach using a functor

> So compared to the previous approach, which might be beneficial.
> An alternative is the usage of a functor, that introduces a “shared storage”
> of the result of computing `A*p`. We additionally have to store `p` though,
> since we have to check that we are still evaluation the cost and/or gradient
> at the same point, respectively.
> We again consider the (more efficient) inplace variant.
> The can be done as follows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative to the previous approach is the usage of a functor that introduces a “shared storage”
of the result of computing `A*p`. We additionally have to store `p` though,
since we have to check that we are still evaluating the cost and/or gradient
at the same point at which the cached `A*p` was computed.
We again consider the (more efficient) inplace variant.
The can be done as follows
```

```{julia}
struct StorageG{T,M}
    A::M
    Ap::T
    p::T
end

> function (g::StorageG)(::Val{:Cost}, M, p)
>     if !(p==g.p) #We are at a new point -> Update
>         g.Ap .= g.A*p
>         g.p .= p
>     end
>     return -g.p'*g.Ap
> end
> function (g::StorageG)(::Val{:Gradient}, M, X, p)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function (g::StorageG)(::Val{:Cost}, M::AbstractManifold, p)
    if !(p==g.p) #We are at a new point -> Update
        g.Ap .= g.A*p
        g.p .= p
    end
    return -g.p'*g.Ap
end
function (g::StorageG)(::Val{:Gradient}, M::AbstractManifold, X, p)
```

    if !(p==g.p) #We are at a new point -> Update
        g.Ap .= g.A*p
        g.p .= p
    end

>     copyto!(M, X, p, -2.0 .* g.Ap)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    X .= -2 .* g.Ap
```

Author: I am never sure when to use which, so I trust you here.

    project!(M, X, p, X)
    return X
end
```

> Here we use a first parameter do distinguish both functions. For the mutating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we use the first parameter to distinguish both functions. For the mutating
```

> case the signatures are even different, but for an allocating case, the signatures of the cost and the gradient function are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case the signatures are different regardless of the additional argument but for the allocating case, the signatures of the cost and the gradient function are the same.
```

g3(M,p) = storage_g(Val(:Cost), M, p)
grad_g3!(M, X, p) = storage_g(Val(:Gradient), M, X, p)
@time s3 = gradient_descent(N, g3, grad_g3!, p0;
    stopping_criterion = StopWhenGradientNormLess(1e-5),
    evaluation=InplaceEvaluation(),
    count=[:Cost, :Gradient],
    cache=(:LRU, [:Cost, :Gradient], 25),
    return_objective=true#, return_state=true
)
```

This of course still yields the same result

```{julia}
p3 = get_solver_result(s3)
g(N, p3) - f_star
```

And while we again have a split of the cost and gradient evaluations, we can observer that the allocations are less thatn half of the previous approach.

### A local Cache approach

This variant is very similar to the previous one, but uses a whole cache instead
of just one place to store `A*p`. This makes the code a bit nicer,
and it is possivle to store more than just the last `p` either cost or gradient
was called with.

```{julia}
struct CacheG{C,M}
    A::M
    cache::C
end
function (g::CacheG)(::Val{:Cost}, M, p)
    Ap = get!(g.cache, copy(M,p)) do
        g.A*p
    end
    return -p'*Ap
end
function (g::CacheG)(::Val{:Gradient}, M, X, p)
    Ap = get!(g.cache, copy(M,p)) do
        g.A*p
    end

>     copyto!(M, X, p, -2.0 .* Ap)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    X .= -2 .* Ap
```

    project!(M, X, p, X)
    return X
end
```

However, the resulting solver run is not always faster, since
the whole cache instead of storing just `Ap` and `p` is a bit more costly.
Then the tradeoff is, whether this pays off.

```{julia}
#Define the new functor
cache_g = CacheG(A, LRU{typeof(p0),typeof(p0)}(; maxsize=25))
# and cost and gradient that use this functor as
g4(M,p) = cache_g(Val(:Cost), M, p)
grad_g4!(M, X, p) = cache_g(Val(:Gradient), M, X, p)
@time s4 = gradient_descent(N, g4, grad_g4!, p0;
    stopping_criterion = StopWhenGradientNormLess(1e-5),
    evaluation=InplaceEvaluation(),
    count=[:Cost, :Gradient],
    cache=(:LRU, [:Cost, :Gradient], 25),
    return_objective=true,
)
```

and for safety let's check that we are reasonably close

```{julia}
p4 = get_solver_result(s4)
g(N, p4) - f_star
```

For this example, or maybe even [`gradient_descent`](@ref) in general it seems,
the last this additional cache does not improve the result further,

> it is one the same effort both time and allocation-wise.

Reviewer: What does "the last" here refer to?

Author: that is just too much in that line.

Author: rephrased it.

Reviewer: Thanks, it reads better now.
